[Docs] Add projector docs (#269)
pasqal-io/qadence: docs/advanced_tutorials/projectors.md

> This section introduces the `ProjectorBlock` as an implementation for the the quantum mechanical projection operation. It evaluates to the outer product of a ket and a bra expressed as bitstrings.

Reviewer: Can you add the mathematical formula and a little bit more explanation of the interface?

Author: Done.

This section introduces the `ProjectorBlock` as an implementation for the the quantum mechanical projection operation onto the subspace spanned by $|a\rangle$: $\mathbb{\hat{P}}=|a\rangle \langle a|$. It evaluates the outer product for bras and kets expressed as bitstrings for a given qubit support. They have to possess matching lengths.

```python exec="on" source="material-block" session="projector" result="json"
from qadence.blocks import block_to_tensor
from qadence.operations import Projector  # Projector as an operation.

# Define a projector for |1> onto the qubit labelled 0.
projector_block = Projector(ket="1", bra="1", qubit_support=0)

# As any block, the matrix representation can be retrieved.
projector_matrix = block_to_tensor(projector_block)

print(f"projector matrix = {projector_matrix}") # markdown-exec: hide
```

> Other standard operations are expressed as projectors in Qadence. For instance, the number operator $N=\dfrac{1}{2}(I-Z)=|1\rangle\langle 1|$ is used to build projector controlled-unitary gates: $\textrm{CNOT}(i,j)=N(i)\otimes(X(j)-I(j))$.

Reviewer 2: Hm do you mean to write here about the generator of controlled-operations? I think that's the only thing you can write with the projector, but you would still need the exponential to make the unitary gate [(e.g. as done here)](https://pasqal-io.github.io/qadence/latest/digital_analog_qc/daqc-cnot/).

Reviewer 2: But I wouldn't necessary include this since we don't really express the controlled unitaries we have as the exponential of the projectors, we mostly just use their direct matrix definitions.

Author: Actually, what I really meant is this:

<img width="679" alt="Screenshot 2023-12-18 at 16 03 07" src="https://github.com/pasqal-io/qadence/assets/9250798/99c59f09-4f0f-4e0c-a50a-93951fe93a41">

But this isn't what we really do to define `CNOT`. Maybe a good example is to construct the `CNOT` using projectors and compare the unitaries with our own implementation ?

Reviewer 2: Ah right! Yes sounds good.

Author: Done.

!!! warning
    Projectors lead to non-unitary computations only supported by the PyQTorch backend.

```python exec="on" source="material-block" session="projector" result="json"
from qadence import chain, run
from qadence.operations import H, CNOT

# Define a projector for |1> onto the qubit labelled 1.
projector_block = Projector(ket="1", bra="1", qubit_support=1)

# Some non unitary computation.
non_unitary_block = chain(H(0), CNOT(0,1), projector_block)

non_unitary_wf = run(non_unitary_block)  # Run on PyQTorch.

> print(f"non_unitary_wf = {non_unitary_wf}") # markdown-exec: hide

Reviewer 2: I would suggest `projected_wf` since `unitary` most often refers to the operators (although it does indeed become a "non-unit" vector).

Author: Done.

This section introduces the `ProjectorBlock` as an implementation for the the quantum mechanical projection operation onto the subspace spanned by $|a\rangle$: $\mathbb{\hat{P}}=|a\rangle \langle a|$. It evaluates the outer product for bras and kets expressed as bitstrings for a given qubit support. They have to possess matching lengths.

```python exec="on" source="material-block" session="projector" result="json"
from qadence.blocks import block_to_tensor
from qadence.operations import Projector  # Projector as an operation.

# Define a projector for |1> onto the qubit labelled 0.
projector_block = Projector(ket="1", bra="1", qubit_support=0)

# As any block, the matrix representation can be retrieved.
projector_matrix = block_to_tensor(projector_block)

print(f"projector matrix = {projector_matrix}") # markdown-exec: hide
```

> Other standard operations are expressed as projectors in Qadence. For instance, the number operator $N=\dfrac{1}{2}(I-Z)=|1\rangle\langle 1|$ is used to build $\textrm{CNOT}(i,j)=N(i)\otimes(X(j)-I(j))$. In fact, `CNOT` can also be defined as a projector controlled-unitary operation: $\textrm{CNOT}(i,j)=|0\rangle\langle 0|_i\otimes \mathbb{I}(j)+|1\rangle\langle 1|_i\otimes X(j)$ and we can check their matrix representations are identical:

Reviewer 2: I think this equality is not correct: $\textrm{CNOT}(i,j)=N(i)\otimes(X(j)-I(j))$.

```suggestion
Other standard operations are expressed as projectors in Qadence. For instance, the number operator is the projector onto the 1-subspace, $N=|1\rangle\langle 1|$.

In fact, projectors can be used to compose arbitrary operators. For example, the `CNOT` can also be defined as $\textrm{CNOT}(i,j)=|0\rangle\langle 0|_i\otimes \mathbb{I}(j)+|1\rangle\langle 1|_i\otimes X(j)$ and we can check their matrix representations are identical:
```

```python exec="on" source="material-block" session="projector" result="json"
from qadence.blocks import block_to_tensor
from qadence import kron, I, X, CNOT

# Define a projector for |0> onto the qubit labelled 0.
projector0 = Projector(ket="0", bra="0", qubit_support=0)

# Define a projector for |1> onto the qubit labelled 0.
projector1 = Projector(ket="1", bra="1", qubit_support=0)

# Construct the projector controlled CNOT.
projector_cnot = kron(projector0, I(1)) + kron(projector1, X(1))

# Get the underlying unitary.
projector_cnot_matrix = block_to_tensor(projector_cnot)

> # Qadence CNOT unitary defined as N @ (X-I).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Qadence CNOT unitary.
```

qadence_cnot_matrix = block_to_tensor(CNOT(0,1))

print(f"projector cnot matrix = {projector_cnot_matrix}") # markdown-exec: hide
print(f"qadence cnot matrix = {qadence_cnot_matrix}") # markdown-exec: hide
```

> Another example is the canonical SWAP gate that can be defined as $SWAP(i,j)=|00\rangle\langle 00|+|01\rangle\langle 10|+|10\rangle\langle 01|+|11\rangle\langle 11|$. Indeed, it can be shown that their matricial representations are again identical:

Reviewer 2: Just to contextualize: my previous suggested change to the CNOT was to emphasize that you really can write anything you want in terms of projectors. In the CNOT it was by composing with paulis, here in the SWAP it is by composing projectors alone. 

In the limit you can always write some arbitrary matrix $M = [[a, b], [c, d]]$ as $M = a|0><0| + b|0><1|+ c|1><0|+ d|1><1|$ (and the same for higher dimension).

Author: Sure. But I couldn't get a better formulation for the SWAP unitary unfortunately.
